our folks are doing out in the field
what we're going to do now is shift
gears and show you what you can be doing
to maybe some of your old guns maybe
some of your new guns to kind of give
them an entirely new look
if you're looking for a way to set your
gun apart wanna give an old gun a
facelift well we've got the place for
you tucked away in bay city is this
unassuming spot with lots going on
inside well we're basically Michigan
we're ultimate automotive and Michigan
hydrographics we basically do custom car
audio and show cars a fabrication we do
fiberglass work we do metalwork paint
hydro dipping you know a lot of its just
custom stuff for show cars and that type
of thing now Dave and I met through our
Facebook page and when he told me that
gun dipping was one of their new
processes its kind of intrigued because
I was actually trying to find a place
that did just this kind of work when you
come in and start if you move depending
on whether you had a wood or synthetic
stock the stock where parts would get
prepped a little bit differently
depending on what it is metal would get
a salt fetching primer would would get a
primer sealer then we lay a base coat of
paint depending on what pattern and
stuff we're working with you would you
know put typically a light base coat
down on it and when you lay this pattern
actually comes on a film which we would
lay in a in water it's basically he
didn't tank of water it sits there for
one minute and gets sprayed with an
activator and what that would do is
dissolve the actual film itself so you
what you have is ink floating on the
water and then like with this particular
stock you would go in and actually dip
the part and what it's doing is etching
or embedding itself into the end of the
pain so I had kind of an older Johnson
center with a muzzleloader barrel and a
short little 20 gauge turkey barrel that
I've been hoping to do a little updating
to this process these guys go through is
really pretty interesting once the base
layer is put on the guys will paint the
gun parts as well so they were able to
take the ink from the dipping process
the timing has to be just right to make
this work but to see the final product
makes it all worthwhile but a really
positive response he said we
in January first of this year and I've
been having you know 10 15 calls a day
from all over the state it seems that
there's just not a lot of people in the
state that are doing this and if they do
do any kind of hydro dipping it's
basically just a deer skull the european
mount type things or they're dipping for
friends you know it's not really a
business to them is more of a hobby and
they said we get calls from Grand Rapids
Kalamazoo for here on Alpena so actually
the response has been a lot better than
what we expected for you know just
starting out and getting the word out
there so I mean that's been a pleasant
surprise now most folks will ship the
stack or parts they want dip to the guys
here or you can call in set up an
appointment to drop your gun off I was
amazed at the quality of the patterns as
it comes out of the water and just so
you know it's easier to tell you the
patterns they don't have than the ones
they do there's hundreds and hundreds of
patterns out there we have three
separate companies that we go through
that we order patterns from and each
company probably has over a hundred
patterns available so I mean you have
everything from carbon fiber to like a
marble you know a brick pattern burlwood
camos and then you have your designer
patterns where you have flames you have
skulls you have zombies you have I mean
there's just a multitude of patterns out
there to choose from I have been at a
few Bowl companies and watched as
machines dipped bull risers but had not
seen a gun stock or barrel being dipped
by hand it has pretty impressive as you
can see the image it literally wraps
around the barrel and totally changes
the look of the gun without harming any
of the interior in fact most times the
action or parts of the gun that will rub
are taped off or not dipped at all I
chose to take the scopes off the barrel
and as you can see the results were
pretty amazing well Jimmy here's your
gun it's all done there
product everything is warranty against
any peeling bubbly anything like that
thankfully we haven't had any issues
with it but came out pretty nice and
good luck with it deer hunt in the phone
welcome fall and spring I plan on taking
these to the woods and even though the
guy pulling the trigger is a little
suspect that guns look great thanks to
both Dave and Shane for showing us just
what is possible for some of the old or
new guns that we have in our gun cabinet
thanks for joining us this week for
Michigan out of doors make sure you stay
tuned over the next few weeks we've got
a lot more exciting brand new stuff to
bring you including a little bit of ice
fishing hopefully if we have any luck
out here we'll check out some new
archery gear all kinds of good stuff
going on if you ever wonder what we're
up to you can always check us out on the
web well that's right Jenny our website
is Michigan out-of-doors tv.com and you
can find us there full episodes of the
show every week and if you do the
facebook thing we're on there pretty
much every other day or so letting you
know what's going on as we try to bring
you 52 brand new episodes here in the
great state of Michigan thanks so much
for joining us this week and hopefully
we'll see you right back here next week
on your PBS station Michigan
out-of-doors is presented by by Zimmer
roofing and construction and Port Huron
featuring duralast roofing systems made
in Michigan Zimmer roofing and
construction provides installation
maintenance service and repair serving
commercial and residential clients on
the web at Zimmer roofing calm thighs
show span producing consumer shows that
include the ultimate sports show and
Grand Rapids over 350 exhibitors outdoor
gear boats seminars lake ultimate and
big buck night the ultimate sports show
at the DeVos Place and grand rapids by
propane exceptional energy propane
retailers promote the safe use of
Michigan produced gas energy in homes
farms and businesses across our great
state learn more at use Michigan propane
calm
by meijer a destination for hunting
fishing and camping from bug spray in
tents to GPS and gas fire has nearly
everything you need to take on nature
and get you there buyer closed
captioning is brought to you by propane
exceptional energy propane retailers
promote the safe use of Michigan
produced gas to outdoor enthusiasts
across our great state
when I wanna far away a dream stays with
me night and day it's the road that
leads to my home state I am a Michigan
man